A Quick Overview of How to Interact With OpenShift
------------------------------------------------

== Command Line Interface

OpenShift includes a feature-rich web console with both an Administrator
perspective and a Developer perspective. In addition to the web console,
OpenShift includes command line tools to provide users with a nice
interface to work with applications deployed to the platform. The oc
command line tool is an executable written in the Go programming
language and is available for the following operating systems:

____
* Microsoft Windows
* macOS 10
* Linux
____

This lab environment already has the _oc_ command line tool installed on
the Bastion so you wonâ€™t need to install it on your local machine if you
do not want to.

== Using a Project

Projects are a top level concept to help you organize your deployments.
An OpenShift project allows a community of users (or a user) to organize
and manage their content in isolation from other communities. Each
project has its own resources, policies (who can or cannot perform
actions), and constraints (quotas and limits on resources, etc).
Projects act as a "wrapper" around all the application services and
endpoints you (or your teams) are using for your work.

== The Web Console

OpenShift ships with a web-based console that will allow users to
perform various tasks via a browser. The first time you access the web
console, you will most likely be in the Administrator perspective. You
will be presented with the list of Projects that you can access, and you
will see something that looks like the following image:

____
image:images/image001.png[image001]
____

Click on a project link. When you click on the project, you will be
taken to the project details page, which will list some metrics and
details about your project.

____
image:images/image002.png[image002]
____

At the top of the left navigation menu, you can toggle between the
Administrator perspective and the Developer perspective.

____
image:images/image003.png[image003]
____

Select Developer to switch to the Developer perspective. Once the
Developer perspective loads, you should be in the Topology view.

____
image:images/image004.png[image004,scaledwidth=75.0%]
____

Select Administrator to switch back to the Administrator perspective.
Once the Administrator perspective loads, you should be in the Overview
view.

____
image:images/image001.png[image001]
____

We will be using a mix of command line tooling and the web console for
the labs. Get ready!
